RHDEVDOCS-3589: understanding odo (#42313)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/odo-core-concepts.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/developer_cli_odo/understanding-odo.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="odo-core-concepts_{context}"]

= odo core concepts

`odo` abstracts Kubernetes concepts into terminology that is familiar to developers:

Application::
A typical application, developed with a link:https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps[cloud-native approach], that is used to perform a particular task.
+
Examples of _applications_ include online video streaming, online shopping and hotel reservation systems.

Component::
A set of Kubernetes resources that can run and be deployed separately. A cloud-native application is a collection of small, independent, loosely coupled _components_. 
+
Examples of _components_ include an API back-end, a web interface and a payment back-end.

Project::

> A single unit containing your source code, tests, and libraries. Projects help achieve multi-tenancy, allowing multiple teams to run multiple applications at the same time, on a single cluster.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this. The first sentence describes the project on the developer machine, and the second one describe the Project Kubernetes resource (similar to Namespace).

Author: Agreed - will remove second sentence.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/developer_cli_odo/understanding-odo.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="odo-core-concepts_{context}"]

= odo core concepts

> `{odo-title}` abstracts Kubernetes concepts into a developer friendly terminology:

Reviewer 2: In your preview, does the `{odo-title}` attribute render the way you expect it to?

Reviewer 2: Would it help to give the full name of odo instead: Red Hat® OpenShift® Do ( odo )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`odo` abstracts Kubernetes concepts into a developer friendly terminology:
```

> `{odo-title}` abstracts Kubernetes concepts into a developer friendly terminology:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`{odo-title}` abstracts Kubernetes concepts into a developer-friendly terminology:
```

Reviewer 2: How about "Red Hat® OpenShift® Do ( odo ) is a command line interface (CLI) tool for creating applications on OpenShift Container Platform and Kubernetes." See https://www.ibm.com/docs/SSCSJL_4.3.x/techpreview/overview-odo.html#:~:text=Red%20Hat%C2%AE%20OpenShift%C2%AE,complexity%20of%20the%20underlying%20technology.

Reviewer 2: How about inserting this up front: "Red Hat® OpenShift® Do ( odo ) is a command line interface (CLI) tool for creating applications on OpenShift Container Platform and Kubernetes." Borrowed from [IBM's description of odo](https://www.ibm.com/docs/SSCSJL_4.3.x/techpreview/overview-odo.html#:~:text=Red%20Hat%C2%AE%20OpenShift%C2%AE,complexity%20of%20the%20underlying%20technology.).

Reviewer 2: I removed `-friendly` in response to the "Claims and recommendations" guideline, "Do not make unsubstantiated claims about the following items:
- Perceived benefits or characteristics of a product: Avoid phrases such as "simple to use,"
"effortless," "user-friendly," "future-proof," and "easy to understand." Users might not find these
statements true, and inflated language can reduce the credibility of the information."

Author: > How about this ^^^ (I borrowed that first sentence from [IBM's description of odo](https://www.ibm.com/docs/SSCSJL_4.3.x/techpreview/overview-odo.html#:~:text=Red%20Hat%C2%AE%20OpenShift%C2%AE,complexity%20of%20the%20underlying%20technology.).)

That IBM content looks ridiculous to me - calling it "Red Hat OpenShift Do" , is like using "Red Hat OpenShift C" for the oc client. Would anyone recognize what "Red Hat OpenShift Do" is? (the upstream github  only makes it to page 3 in google search)?

I guess the official name is "Red Hat OpenShift Developer CLI (odo)"

Author: > It refers to the following Kubernetes concepts using software development terminology.

I'm not sure this is accurate. My understanding is that the terminology is odo-specific.

The  glossary maps the odo terminology to  Kubernetes/development concepts

Application::

> An _application_ in `odo` is a classic application, developed with a link:https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps[cloud-native approach], that is used to perform a particular task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An _application_ in `odo` is a classic application, developed with a link:https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps[cloud-native approach], to perform a particular task.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A classic application that has been decomposed into microservices and reployed as a link:https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/cloud-native-apps[cloud-native application].
```
My best guess is that this is what we mean to say...

Author: I believe the intention of the word "classic" here is to convey the sense of "typical" or "normal", rather that incorporating the idea of monoliths. I will use "typical" and let the SME decide.

+

> Examples of applications: Online Video Streaming, Hotel Reservation System, Online Shopping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, video streaming, hotel reservation, and e-commerce websites.
```
Or tack on to the end of the preceding sentence with ", such as..."

Author: In structured authoring, a definition or glossary entry is typically made up of a term, a standalone definition and then other material including examples - see https://tdg.docbook.org/tdg/5.0/glossentry.html

So I would prefer to keep the examples separate from the definition - I will change the case for the examples

Author: Examples of components include an API back-end, a web interface and a payment back-end.

Examples of services include PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis and RabbitMQ.

Component::
A cloud-native application is a collection of small, independent, loosely coupled _components_. An `odo` component is a set of Kubernetes resources that  can run and be deployed separately.
+

> Examples of components: API Backend, Web Frontend, Payment Backend.

Author: Agreed

Project::

> A _project_ contains your source code, tests, and libraries, organized in a single unit. Projects helps achieve multi-tenancy, allowing multiple teams to run multiple applications at the same time, on a single cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _project_ contains your source code, tests, and libraries, organized in a single unit. Projects help achieve multi-tenancy, allowing multiple teams to run multiple applications at the same time, on a single cluster.
```

Author: Fixed

Context::

> The _context_ is a directory that contains the source code, tests, libraries and `odo` specific config files for a single component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The _context_ is a directory that contains the source code, tests, libraries, and odo-specific config files for a single component.
```

Reviewer 2: Should we use "odo" or `{odo-title}` to refer to the app in general, and `odo` to refer to the related CLI command? When I look at the current topics, it's hard to determine what the right practice should be. The nearest comparison I get is by searching the repo for `oc`, which uses the full name to refer to the app and `oc` to refer to the command. For example "OpenShift CLI (`oc`)".

Author: In general, I would tend to hyphenate compounds, but in this instance I am not sure it is needed to clarify the intention, and it would look odd with odo rendered in one font  and the -specific in another.  I also worry that if we move to using a variable for odo, that a hyphenated "Red Hat odo-specific" would look bad.

So, I will simplify it as "odo config files" and avoid the issue entirely.

URL::
A _URL_ exposes a component for access from outside the cluster.

Storage::

> _Storage_ is the persistent storage in the cluster. It persists the data across restarts and across any rebuilds of a component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Storage_ is the persistent storage in the cluster. It persists the data across restarts and component rebuilds.
```

Author: Agreed.

Service::

> A _service_ is an external application that provides additional functionality to a component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _service_ is an external application that provides additional functionality to a component, such as PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis, and RabbitMQ.
```

+

> Examples of services:  PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis, RabbitMQ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> +
> Examples of services:  PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis, RabbitMQ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Examples of services:  PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis, RabbitMQ.

Author: as above

+

> In `{odo-title}`, services are provisioned from the OpenShift Service Catalog and must be enabled within your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `odo`, services are provisioned from the OpenShift Service Catalog and must be enabled within your cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: Replace `{odo-title}` with `odo` in most cases?

devfile::

> The _devfile_ is an open standard for defining containerized development environments that enables developer tools to simplify and accelerate workflows. For more information, see the documentation at link:https://devfile.io[].

Reviewer 2: For minimalism, should we avoid repeating the term, for example "The _devfile_", at the beginning of each definition. Would it be better to simply start with the definition, "An open standard..."?

+

> You can connect to publicly available devfile registries, or you can install your own Secure Registry. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can connect to publicly available devfile registries or install a Secure Registry. 
```

Author: The reason I add in the extra "or you can" is to make it easier to parse - otherwise, you read "you can connect to publicly" ... "or install...", and it can be hard to know where to split the first phrase. So in this case, the extra words help, IMO.
 
Agreed on removing "your own"  Secure Registry
